ocp4/docs/walkthrough/deploycis.rst, before:

Deploying Container Ingress Services
====================================

In the previous step we deployed applications, next we will deploy 
Container Ingress Services to automate provisioning OpenShift Routes
on the BIG-IP.

Adding the BIG-IP to the OpenShift Network
------------------------------------------

Before you can install CIS you need to make the BIG-IP part of the 
OpenShift network.  This can be achieved by adding a HostSubnet resource.

Here is the resource:

.. code-block:: YAML

    apiVersion: v1
    kind: HostSubnet
    metadata:
    name: bigip1
    annotations:
        pod.network.openshift.io/fixed-vnid-host: "0"
        pod.network.openshift.io/assign-subnet: "true"
    # provide a name for the BIG-IP device's host Node
    host: bigip1
    # Provide an IP address to serve as the BIG-IP VTEP in the OpenShift SDN
    hostIP: 10.1.20.240

The hostIP refers to the self-ip of the BIG-IP.

From the `~/f5-k8s-demo/ocp4` directory on the BIG-IP you can deploy
this resource by running the following command.

.. code-block:: shell

  $ oc create -f host.yaml

One you run that command you can run the following command to see the BIG-IP
has been added.

.. code-block:: shell

  $ oc get hostsubnet

You will get output that looks similar to the following.  Take note of the 
subnet that has been assigned to the BIG-IP.  You will need to use that 
information in the next step.

.. code-block:: text

    NAME                       HOST                       HOST IP       SUBNET          EGRESS CIDRS   EGRESS IPS
    bigip1                     bigip1                     10.1.20.240   10.130.0.0/23
    master.dc1.example.com     master.dc1.example.com     10.1.1.8      10.129.0.0/23
    worker-0.dc1.example.com   worker-0.dc1.example.com   10.1.1.9      10.128.0.0/23

Creating VXLAN Connection to OpenShift from BIG-IP
---------------------------------------------------

OpenShift is now able to send traffic to the BIG-IP, but the BIG-IP is not
configured to receive or send traffic to OpenShift.

Login to the BIG-IP using Putty.  There should be a profile for "bigip1".

Once connected you can run the following TMSH commands.

.. warning:: Use the subnet that matches your environment.  Also change the subnet from /23 to /14.

.. code-block:: text

    create /auth partition ocp
    create net tunnels vxlan ose-vxlan flooding-type multipoint
    create net tunnels tunnel openshift_vxlan key 0 profile ose-vxlan local-address 10.1.20.240
    # warning change subnet value to match output from oc get hostsubnet
    # the value may be different in your environment
    create net self vxlan-local address 10.130.0.3/14 allow-service none vlan openshift_vxlan
    create net self vxlan-float address 10.130.0.4/14 allow-service none vlan openshift_vxlan traffic-group traffic-group-1

The partition will be used by CIS to store networking information (fdb).

The tunnel type is VXLAN and is using a key of "0" to be able to access
all OpenShift networks.

At this point the BIG-IP has a VXLAN configuration.  The final networking
piece will be to install Container Ingress Services to add the necessary
fdb entries to allow the BIG-IP to send traffic to the correct OpenShift
nodes.

Operator Hub
------------

OpenShift uses "operators" to organize software into re-usable components.

Container Ingress Services can be deployed using an OpenShift operator.

CIS makes use of a "helm" operator to templatize the steps necessary to
have the proper RBAC, deployment.

.. tip:: 
   You can access the OpenShift console from Google Chrome.  Login using "openid" with username: admin, password: admin

Find the "Operator Hub" in the Console and search for "f5".

.. image:: operatorhub.png
  :scale: 50 %

Next click on Install.

.. image:: console-install-cis-operator.png
  :scale: 50 %

You will then want to create a subscription.  Select the "default" namespace.

.. note:: The controller will deploy in the "kube-system" regardless of the namespace of the operator.

.. image:: console-create-subscription.png
  :scale: 50 %


At this point you have enabled OpenShift to deploy an operator for 
Container Ingress Services.  As noted on the install screen you will 
need to create a "secret" that has the username and password that you
will access the BIG-IP.  The credentials must have "admin" privileges 
on the BIG-IP.  You can use the directions outlined on the page (using 
the "oc" command) or via the Console by changing to the "kube-system"
project and creating a "secret" under the "Workload" menu.

.. image:: console-secret.png
  :scale: 50 %

Next change back to the "default" project before proceeding.  

Go back to Operator Hub.

.. image:: console-installed-operators.png
  :scale: 50 %

Click on CIS 

.. image:: console-operator-overview.png
  :scale: 50 %

Click on "Create F5BigIpCtrl"

.. image:: console-create-cis.png
  :scale: 50 %

The inputs are taken from the CIS helm chart: https://github.com/F5Networks/charts/tree/master/src/stable/f5-bigip-ctlr

The following is what you should use.

.. code-block:: 

    apiVersion: cis.f5.com/v1
    kind: F5BigIpCtlr
    metadata:
    name: f5-server
    namespace: default
    spec:
    args:
        log_as3_response: true
        manage_routes: true
        manage_ingress: true
        manage_configmaps: true
        agent: as3
        log_level: INFO
        route_vserver_addr: 10.1.10.100
        bigip_partition: ocp
        openshift_sdn_name: /Common/openshift_vxlan
        bigip_url:  10.1.20.240
        insecure: true
        pool-member-type: cluster
        namespace: default
        override-as3-declaration: default/f5-as3-override
    bigip_login_secret: bigip-login
    image:
        pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        repo: k8s-bigip-ctlr
        user: f5networks
    namespace: kube-system
    rbac:
        create: true
    resources: {}
    serviceAccount:
        create: true
        name: null
    version:  2.0.0

Next click on "f5-server".

.. image:: console-f5-server.png
  :scale: 50 %

Deploy a Route
--------------

OpenShift makes use of "Routes" to provide L7 load balancing to applications.

We will next deploy the following Route.

.. code-block:: yaml

    apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
    kind: Route
    metadata:
    name: cisroute
    namespace: default
    spec:
    host: my-frontend.cisroutes.dc1.example.com
    path: /
    to:
        kind: Service
        name: my-frontend
    port:
        targetPort: 80

To deploy this route run the following command (the contents of the file
is the Route listed above).

.. code-block:: shell

    $ oc create -f my-route.yaml

Commit message:

more steps on adding CIS

ocp4/docs/walkthrough/deploycis.rst, after:

Deploying Container Ingress Services
====================================

In the previous step we deployed applications, next we will deploy 
Container Ingress Services to automate provisioning OpenShift Routes
on the BIG-IP.

Adding the BIG-IP to the OpenShift Network
------------------------------------------

Before you can install CIS you need to make the BIG-IP part of the 
OpenShift network.  This can be achieved by adding a HostSubnet resource.

Here is the resource:

.. code-block:: YAML

    apiVersion: v1
    kind: HostSubnet
    metadata:
    name: bigip1
    annotations:
        pod.network.openshift.io/fixed-vnid-host: "0"
        pod.network.openshift.io/assign-subnet: "true"
    # provide a name for the BIG-IP device's host Node
    host: bigip1
    # Provide an IP address to serve as the BIG-IP VTEP in the OpenShift SDN
    hostIP: 10.1.20.240

The hostIP refers to the self-ip of the BIG-IP.

From the `~/f5-k8s-demo/ocp4` directory on the BIG-IP you can deploy
this resource by running the following command.

.. code-block:: shell

  $ oc create -f host.yaml

One you run that command you can run the following command to see the BIG-IP
has been added.

.. code-block:: shell

  $ oc get hostsubnet

You will get output that looks similar to the following.  Take note of the 
subnet that has been assigned to the BIG-IP.  You will need to use that 
information in the next step.

.. code-block:: text

    NAME                       HOST                       HOST IP       SUBNET          EGRESS CIDRS   EGRESS IPS
    bigip1                     bigip1                     10.1.20.240   10.130.0.0/23
    master.dc1.example.com     master.dc1.example.com     10.1.1.8      10.129.0.0/23
    worker-0.dc1.example.com   worker-0.dc1.example.com   10.1.1.9      10.128.0.0/23

Creating VXLAN Connection to OpenShift from BIG-IP
---------------------------------------------------

OpenShift is now able to send traffic to the BIG-IP, but the BIG-IP is not
configured to receive or send traffic to OpenShift.

Login to the BIG-IP using Putty.  There should be a profile for "bigip1".

Once connected you can run the following TMSH commands.

.. warning:: Use the subnet that matches your environment.  Also change the subnet from /23 to /14.

.. code-block:: text

    create /auth partition ocp
    create net tunnels vxlan ose-vxlan flooding-type multipoint
    create net tunnels tunnel openshift_vxlan key 0 profile ose-vxlan local-address 10.1.20.240
    # warning change subnet value to match output from oc get hostsubnet
    # the value may be different in your environment
    create net self vxlan-local address 10.130.0.3/14 allow-service none vlan openshift_vxlan
    create net self vxlan-float address 10.130.0.4/14 allow-service none vlan openshift_vxlan traffic-group traffic-group-1

The partition will be used by CIS to store networking information (fdb).

The tunnel type is VXLAN and is using a key of "0" to be able to access
all OpenShift networks.

At this point the BIG-IP has a VXLAN configuration.  The final networking
piece will be to install Container Ingress Services to add the necessary
fdb entries to allow the BIG-IP to send traffic to the correct OpenShift
nodes.

Operator Hub
------------

OpenShift uses "operators" to organize software into re-usable components.

Container Ingress Services can be deployed using an OpenShift operator.

CIS makes use of a "helm" operator to templatize the steps necessary to
have the proper RBAC, deployment.

.. tip:: 
   You can access the OpenShift console from Google Chrome.  Login using "openid" with username: admin, password: admin

Find the "Operator Hub" in the Console and search for "f5".

.. image:: operatorhub.png
  :scale: 50 %

Next click on Install.

.. image:: console-install-cis-operator.png
  :scale: 50 %

You will then want to create a subscription.  Select the "default" namespace.

.. note:: The controller will deploy in the "kube-system" regardless of the namespace of the operator.

.. image:: console-create-subscription.png
  :scale: 50 %


At this point you have enabled OpenShift to deploy an operator for 
Container Ingress Services.  As noted on the install screen you will 
need to create a "secret" that has the username and password that you
will access the BIG-IP.  The credentials must have "admin" privileges 
on the BIG-IP.  You can use the directions outlined on the page (using 
the "oc" command) or via the Console by changing to the "kube-system"
project and creating a "secret" under the "Workload" menu.

.. image:: console-secret.png
  :scale: 50 %

Next change back to the "default" project before proceeding.  

Go back to Operator Hub.

.. image:: console-installed-operators.png
  :scale: 50 %

Click on CIS 

.. image:: console-operator-overview.png
  :scale: 50 %

Click on "Create F5BigIpCtrl"

.. image:: console-create-cis.png
  :scale: 50 %

The inputs are taken from the CIS helm chart: https://github.com/F5Networks/charts/tree/master/src/stable/f5-bigip-ctlr

The following is what you should use.

.. code-block:: 

    apiVersion: cis.f5.com/v1
    kind: F5BigIpCtlr
    metadata:
    name: f5-server
    namespace: default
    spec:
    args:
        log_as3_response: true
        manage_routes: true
        manage_ingress: true
        manage_configmaps: true
        agent: as3
        log_level: INFO
        route_vserver_addr: 10.1.10.100
        bigip_partition: ocp
        openshift_sdn_name: /Common/openshift_vxlan
        bigip_url:  10.1.20.240
        insecure: true
        pool-member-type: cluster
        namespace: default
        override-as3-declaration: default/f5-as3-override
    bigip_login_secret: bigip-login
    image:
        pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        repo: k8s-bigip-ctlr
        user: f5networks
    namespace: kube-system
    rbac:
        create: true
    resources: {}
    serviceAccount:
        create: true
        name: null
    version:  2.0.0

The Pod
-------

Next change to the "kube-system" project and find the Pod "f5-server...".

.. image:: console-cis-all-good.png
  :scale: 50 %

If you "DON'T" see something like that (like errors).  Then the easiest
fix is to restart the pod by 

.. image:: console-cis-delete-pod.png
  :scale: 50 %

Deploy a Route
--------------

OpenShift makes use of "Routes" to provide L7 load balancing to applications.

We will next deploy the following Route.

.. code-block:: yaml

    apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
    kind: Route
    metadata:
    name: cisroute
    namespace: default
    spec:
    host: my-frontend.cisroutes.dc1.example.com
    path: /
    to:
        kind: Service
        name: my-frontend
    port:
        targetPort: 80

Under the "default" project go to Networking -> Routes.

Click on "create" then "Edit YAML" and enter the route from above.

.. image:: console-create-route.png
  :scale: 50 %

After clicking on create scroll down and observe the route appears on both
the "default" and "F5 BIG-IP".

.. image:: console-route-status.png
  :scale: 50 %

You should then be able to visit the deployed Route in Chrome (following 
steps from "Basic Demo").
